he announces the mandates um
essentially preventing
millions of canadians from boarding a
plane or a train and for civil servants
who have been working from home since
the pandemic began uh they needed to be
vaccinated and it was just one of the
most bizarre things so not only did the
trudeau cabinet generate an unnecessary
travel lockdown depriving canadians of
one of their most fundamental civil
rights especially in a country of our
size but they did it and scrambled to
find a scientific lie to justify it and
it was so far off based on the science
that they couldn't even find a suitable
lie and then they magnified their error
by calling an election and all of this
was an instrumental attempt to gain more
power on the election front because
trudeau was worried about being in a
minority position and looking for a way
to increase his grip on the prime
ministership right
oh boy it's no wonder no canadian
newspaper would publish that that's
hardly a story at all
[Music]
hi everyone
i was sent an interesting article about
a week ago written by rupa subramanya
it was sent to me
by two sources
one from barry weiss's sub stack which
is where it was published and and also
by rex murphy who's one of canada's
foremost journalists they were
they were very impressed with it the
article and thought it was important and
so i read it and
i think it is important the article was
called court documents reveal
canada's travel ban had no scientific
basis
now
it was very interesting to me that
rupa had to publish this
basically in an american news channel
and sort of out of the way although
barry weiss's sub stack is quite popular
and she's also had a lot of difficulty
getting the story folded up
in the canadian legacy news and it's a
big story and i put her in touch with
the telegraph in the uk and
they're going to publish by all
appearances a variant of the story and
so it's pretty sad bloody condition
let's say that
a big canadian news story about the
treacherous deceit of our government
federal government
is
unable to
attract any purchase in in the legacy
media outcome outlets it's it's
stunning in some sense in any case what
rupa revealed was that
the trudeau government put in what were
among the most stringent travel
restrictions in the western world as of
august 13 2021
and
claimed scientific justification for
doing so but in fact not only was there
no scientific justification whatsoever
for doing so there weren't any people
who were making the decision who were
qualified to determine whether such
scientific evidence actually existed
and so despite the fact that everyone
who objected was pilloried as a public
menace uh as well as however else they
might be pilloried
it appears as though
all of it was smoke and mirrors and and
sheer bloody instrumental politicking
and i heard the same thing about
operations at the provincial government
levels in canada from very reliable
sources that all this
so-called reliance on science was
complete bloody nonsense and that what
was instead happening was that
governments were conducting opinion
polls like mad which is not necessarily
a bad thing in itself but often is and
ruling on that basis deriving policy on
that basis so on the basis of public
fear and whim and then passing that off
as scientific and that's pretty horrible
uh or maybe it's really horrible and
that was rupa's claim in some sense so
the story also covered
a lawsuit brought against the government
by a couple of plaintiffs who we have
with us today carl harrison and sean
rickard who are
represented by a lawyer
and that lawyer is sam presvolos and
he's here today too so he's also going
to talk and then
featured as well commentary by bruce
pardy and bruce is a law professor at
queen's university who's been
very he's very interested in well let's
call it rule of law by precedent you
know good old classic
english common law essentially and so
he's going to give a broader overview of
the whole legal situation so i'm going
to start with some bios and then
rupa is going to come in and tell the
story and weave the plaintiffs and their
their representative lawyer into the
story and then bruce is going to comment
and all chime in probably too much
so
first rupa subramania is a freelance
columnist
for the national post canada and nikai
her previous work has also appeared in
the wall street journal and foreign
policy she resides in ottawa ontario
bruce pardee is a law professor at
queen's university
and is the executive director of rights
probe he's a critic of legal
progressivism social justice and the
expansive managerial state at the front
lines of the culture war which is raging
madly inside the law dr pardi has taught
at law schools in canada the u.s and new
zealand he's one of the co-creators of
the free north declaration a public
petition and movement to protect civil
liberties in canada from covid19
irrationality and overreach
sam presvolos the representing lawyer
founded presby's law llp at 25 years of
age and serves there as managing partner
he specializes in corporate commercial
and real estate litigation
and has successfully represented clients
before the superior court of justice
divisional court court of appeal
and federal court of canada his peers
ranked mr presidolos as one of the top
100 lawyers in toronto in 2021
in post magazine
carl harrison
one of the plaintiffs against the
federal government has opened operated
and sold
many successful restaurants bars and
music and comedy venues
in 2011
he was named one of the top 20 most
influential people in the uk hospitality
trade
he has found success as a real estate
investor and developer since 1987 and
has been involved in the travel sector
since the year 2000 he is a co-founder
and co-owner of a well-known family
holiday brand operating in the uk
france spain and ireland he was also
a very interesting life he was also
co-founder and investor at seattle
seawolves a team which took the
silverware in the first two seasons of
major league rugby in the u.s he's also
been an occasional contributing writer
for the uk satirical magazine private
eye and has as well co-produced a series
of award-winning short horror films
last but not least he has campaigned for
reform of abusive practices in the uk
pub sector
and finally
sean rickard
is a 55 year old entrepreneur and small
business owner who resides in pickering
ontario he owns and operates a
contracting business specializing in
exterior aluminum and vinyl siding and
eaves work
on residential homes he founded the
company back in early 2013 and built it
from the ground up
he's a british citizen and a permanent
resident in canada
mr rickard came to canada on a vacation
to explore when he was just 20 years old
and fell in love with the country
mr rickard also had a fishing and
outdoor tv show back in 2005 to 2007
which aired in canada and the us on oln
ctv wfn and global welcome rupa bruce
sam carl and sean thank you very much
for agreeing to talk with me today rupa
why don't you start filling us in tell
us
tell us about the story and and then
fill in the story and bring these other
characters in
okay well thanks jordan thanks for
having us all here it uh it really uh is
a pleasure and a
real honor
so um i will quickly summarize the story
uh for for our viewers and our listeners
uh the trudeau government always claimed
that covet 19 policies were based on the
science and the evidence they kept
telling us we're consulting the experts
the
the scientists and we're following the
signs and the evidence
but now thanks to the civil suit brought
brought by carl harrison and sean
rickard uh and um and we've seen
inside the guts of one of the key
mandates of this of the federal
government implemented by the federal
government which is the vaccine mandate
for travel
which proved so incredibly destructive
and prevented millions of canadians from
traveling
to even visit sick relatives and um
and and you know visiting their loved
ones
to board a plane or a train you couldn't
even uh board a train for domestic
travel purposes
um and so while pouring over hundreds of
pages of testimony and cross-examination
uh thanks to the brilliant
cross-examination by their attorney sam
preslas it becomes crystal clear that
the mandates were going to happen
and that the bureaucrats had to scramble
to find some kind of a scientific
rationale uh for which they weren't able
to do even uh just a few before uh just
a few days before the mandate kicked in
um so the question is why did trudeau do
this um trudeau was if you remember the
prime minister was in a minority in the
house of commons um having lost his
majority back in 2019 because of
corruption and cronyism scams
and he was desperate to regain it and
vaccine mandates
proved to be the perfect wedge issue and
that's what everybody was saying at that
time uh this is the fall of 2021. uh why
for travel well one crucial reason
is that it's the only sector apart from
the federal workplace which comes under
the federal government's powers
in other words this was the only place
where trudeau
could flex his muscles and impose a
vaccine mandate and that's what he did
so your so your claim here if i have it
right just so everyone listening knows
is that
trudeau who was struggling to maintain
popularity to maintain his government
picked a divisive wedge issue because it
was a divisive wedge issue imposed it on
canadians and then attempt to insist
that it was justified by the science
uh yeah uh there was no it's very clear
the the the scientific rationale was uh
is is lacking at least based on the
cross-examination of the key government
witnesses uh in this case
so
so he risked splitting the country apart
and pitting people against each other
personally and socially
to facilitate his government's grip on
power that's what it appears to
be at this point yeah
okay so sorry to interrupt i just wanted
to clarify that so all right so you
started investigating this why
well um i was actually aware of the
case but
i really had no entree into it until
through a mutual acquaintance one of the
applicants reached out to me and then i
became aware of the case and the
background and their fight
against the federal government against
the travel mandate
and then thanks to their litigation the
documents uh eventually became publicly
available um
and um through the through the federal
court uh ironically i must point this
out that in response to my piece telling
the story of sean and carl's legal
battle uh the federal court uh in a very
unusual move and this is what i'm told
by by many people that it was an
extremely unusual move they actually
made it easier for the public to access
the documents by tweeting about it and
they they made a link publicly available
and and i have to say that some some of
the cross-examination really reads like
a john grisham novel you know you've got
the secretive government panel within
transport canada uh which is tasked with
crafting the mandate
apart from its head who's a career
bureaucrat um
she has a degree in english literature
we don't really know much about the
others there are about 20 people on this
panel um and she except she names one
individual on this on this panel uh and
and but who seems to have some kind of a
public health background when i reached
out to her uh she said she has a
master's in science but she refused to
tell me what that was in um for all you
know it could be astrophysics but we
don't we don't we don't know we don't
know that but the key key point here is
none of these people had a background in
medicine epidemiology
infectious diseases virology
you name it uh they were just there to
provide a cover uh for the mandate
and you talk about jennifer is it
jennifer little it's jennifer little yes
and she was the one who was
in charge of this is that correct yeah
she was the director general of uh this
uh this group of uh these are all
these are all civil servants you're
talking about they're all civil servants
okay why did they regard it as part of
their duty to provide a cover story for
the politicking of the liberal
government i thought they had a duty to
the public fundamentally so why were
they roped into this and why did they
agree to it
well i mean this is something that you
you know you would have to ask them but
my guess is you know they were just
doing their jobs i guess you know you
you have the secret of a task force
within transport canada uh and they
really had no good scientific rationale
and they were looking for one they were
scrambling for one uh days before
literally less than 10 days before the
mandate uh goes into effect uh and uh
and you know including hoping that the
public health agency of canada p hack
would come up with something which they
didn't um and uh and and jennifer little
the bureaucrat that i refer to with the
uh bachelor's degree in english
literature
repeatedly said the decisions were made
at very high levels and uh
these were people senior to her and
invoked uh cabinet confidence uh and
refused to answer who exactly ordered
the mandates this was during
cross-examination yes this was during
cross-examination and she has the right
she has the right to keep that
information secret if it's come from
from what from a high enough legislative
source i i i would guess so i mean this
is not my area of expertise i don't
really know the law governing uh civil
servants but she certainly repeatedly uh
um invoked cabinet confidence and when
she was asked questions on who exactly
ordered the mandates um making it pretty
clear i i i guess i mean one could infer
from this the decision was taken either
by the prime minister himself or the
cabinet as a whole um and this this
confirms what many had suspected all
along that when the prime minister
introduced the federal tr uh a mandate
both for travel and for the civil
service and called a snap election two
days later august 13 he he announces the
mandates um
essentially preventing um millions of
canadians from boarding a plane or a
train and for civil servants who have
been working from home since the
pandemic began
they needed to be vaccinated and it was
just one of the most bizarre things okay
so let me stop you there and summarize
so because this is where the plot gets
particularly thick
so not only did the trudeau cabinet
generate an unnecessary travel lockdown
depriving canadians of one of their most
fundamental civil rights especially in a
country of our size but they did it and
scrambled to find a scientific lie to
justify it and it was so far off based
from the science that they couldn't even
find a suitable lie
and then they magnified their error by
calling an election and all of this was
an instrumental attempt to gain more
power on the election front because
trudeau was worried about being in a
minority position and looking for a way
to increase his grip on the prime
ministership
right
oh boy it's no wonder no canadian
newspaper would publish that that's
hardly a story at all
and and jordan you know if if i may say
this uh uh you know if this really had
been about saving lives uh why didn't
trudeau just impose the mandates and
campaign on them as a feta complete um
that would have been the right thing to
do instead he cleverly used these
mandates as a wedge issue
and
and unfortunately for him he managed to
just eke out another minority government
but in the process he ended up dividing
the country he ended up demonizing and
marginalizing millions of canadians who
were unable or unwilling for a range of
different reasons to get the vaccine
yeah well and a huge part of the reason
they were unable or unwilling to get the
vaccine was because they didn't trust
the trudeau government at all and so
there would be all sorts of people and
some of them i suppose were
conspiratorial or in their inferences
but many weren't who thought there's
something fishy going on here i don't
trust this a bit and those were all the
people who were demonized as you know
radical anti-vaxxers
we'll get back to more with dr jordan
peterson in just a second first we'd
like to tell you about birch gold the
consumer price index has reached yet
another 40-year high and the latest gdp
numbers confirm that the united states
is in a recession now is not the time to
have all your money in the stock market
or tied to the us dollar take action to
protect your savings from a highly
turbulent economy now by diversifying at
least some of your investment portfolio
into gold and silver from birch gold
group text jordan to 989898 and birch
gold will send you a free information
kit on how to transition an ira or
eligible 401k into an ira in precious
metals birch gold will even help you
hold gold in a tax sheltered account for
decades investors have relied on gold
and silver as a hedge against inflation
now you can too with an a plus rating
with the better business bureau
countless five-star reviews and
thousands of satisfied customers secure
your future with gold from birch gold
now text jordan to 989898 and get real
help from birch gold today again text
jordan to 989898 to claim your free no
obligation information kit on how to
protect your hard-earned savings with
gold
[Music]
we're going to turn to carl harrison uh
who's taken uh and and sean rickard who
taken a lawsuit out against the canadian
government
for reasons related uh to the to the
story that rupa has been telling and so
carl perhaps you can start by telling us
filling us in on on what you're doing
and why
yeah thanks um yeah we're we're taking
uh we we've made an application for
um a judicial declaration
essentially in the federal court
in relation to the uh canadian
government's um
discriminatory
mandates
for requiring a vaccine as a
precursor to traveling
and we filed that in december after a
lot of thought and consideration over
previous months separately i mean i i
came to this
differently to sean
i came to this throughout the summer
months um
in of 2021 in april of 2021 by i was
listening to the prime minister of
canada
saying that there would be a vaccine for
any canadian that wanted one and by the
time we got to the fall
i had a man watching a man on television
as the prime minister of canada talking
about uh
five to seven million of his fellow
canadians as people who were racists and
misogynists and people who were taking
up space
people who might not be tolerated
which is language i mean i'm
coming up 60 years old i've not really
heard that kind of language from
a prime minister of
many western democracies until recently
and i certainly wouldn't have expected
it from a canadian prime minister but
there we go and
so during the summer of 2021 the
prime minister decided he was going to
dissolve parliament go for an election
and try to get reelected in the fall and
clearly he had as you said earlier
identified with his advisers whoever
they are
a wedge issue
which
based around people's health choices um
and he thought he could
polarize the population
and he thought he could use it to his
advantage
why did you feel so strongly about this
to take such dramatic action because
obviously most canadians even within
that five to seven million number that
you described
cr grumbled about this but didn't do
what you did
why did you identify this is so
important and why were you willing to
put yourself at substantial risk
financially and in terms of your time to
do something about it
um it's a it is it's not a difficult
question to answer i mean there are
three when you see this kind of policy
implemented by governments the there are
three things
you can primarily do i mean you can
accept it you can fight it or you can
run away um and
it's a blend of those actions and
i i think if you're able to fight these
things if there's something you can do
then you should it's good citizenship i
mean i'm a recent immigrant to canada
i'm a i'm a canadian citizen and
a uk citizen and i brought my family
here in 2009 and i fell in love with in
canada in the 1990s
and as a
as a recent immigrant from europe it i
feel it's a
part of citizenship to stand up
against these kind of issues so
running away wasn't an option for us
accepting it wasn't an option so how can
we fight it we're not in politics
the
opposition parties throughout the summer
of 2021 were weak i mean erin o'toole i
think just demonstrated an extraordinary
lack of vision and weakness throughout
the summer of 2021 by
seemingly going along with trudeau
rather than actually opposing him whilst
he was opposing him his polling was
doing was doing well and as soon as he
started to go along with him he
plummeted and subsequently lost
um so we thought i thought what can i do
i started to think about a legal action
and at that point i was
came across sean um who was uh i saw him
on twitter you know the
sort of global town hall and i saw sean
there um
with uh you know saying some of the same
things that i was thinking and starting
the process of raising money
and
i reached out to sean i thought i could
contribute from my own legal experience
in the past i thought that was something
i could usefully add and i thought i
could usefully add funding you know i've
been in business a long time so i have
some resource and i thought that's
something else i can do so
i couldn't politically oppose at that
point we couldn't we could protest we
can go and do direct action and we can
protest with other people and canadians
should always protest
where things are wrong
and coming from the uk we're used to
protests i mean it's as you know i mean
you've been there a lot i think to the
uk jordan and protest in the uk is seen
as you know
something that definitely has to be done
um so taking part in that something we
can do and legal action something we can
do i came together with sean in the fall
2021 and
and i'll let sean pick up there because
he can explain
um how we came and came to uh work with
sam i think it's probably helpful
sure sean over to you
yeah hi
and thank you again for having us all on
and helping us get this story out as you
said the canadian
legacy media
have essentially
ignored this story completely
which is mind-boggling and then
also deeply disturbing
but um i i guess i i
this whole process kind of came about
for me um as as carl said um in
september when i heard this sort of
disgusting divisive rhetoric coming out
of our prime minister's mouth when he
was campaigning um
and
the further we went along and and the
more this
this whole threat of um
banning the dirty unvaccinated or those
who refuse to be injected
from getting on a plane or a train and
even leaving the country just absolutely
terrified me i mean
to me
he resembled a sort of a narcissistic
sociopathic tyrant and and it really
troubled me and um
i felt that i had to do something about
it i like to travel
i feel it's my right to travel i'm a
free man
and for somebody to come along and take
that away
um
with no recourse it was deeply
disturbing to me so i
i immediately
started putting the feelers out there to
various people i spoke to a couple of
politicians most of them were useless
and eventually i
i spoke with somebody and i was
given uh sam's name and uh literally in
the same night i had a conversation with
one person who
introduced me to sam
sam and i spoke and that same night i
started a gofundme
campaign on a
fundraising campaign on gofundme
and started tweeting about it i've never
used twitter before i had four followers
and in six weeks i went to 7 800
followers and during that process we
were gaining a lot of traction a lot of
people's interests and you i began to
realize just how
this had affected
like carl said six to seven million
people's lives
um people unable to go and visit family
that type of thing and this is before it
even happened um so we got the ball
rolling i spoke with sam we hit it off
immediately
um and he was as passionate about this
as i was and we came up with a sort of a
vague strategy
of how we might do this and then the
first thing was obviously was to start
raising some money
and um
through that process on twitter
um i started getting messages from
people like you do
as your followers grow people start
sending you messages some
some helpful some not uh some supportive
some not
and uh i got a couple of messages from
carl and i i was kind of fielding
through all these these messages and so
on and uh eventually
um he sent me something that sort of
resonated with me and
um
i found out he was in british columbia
and so i messaged him back
a couple of times we
spoke to each other you know through
direct message and then we arranged uh
eventually arranged to have a zoom call
with sam that's the first time that all
three of us spoke as a group
and carl very kindly at that time um
again as passionate as we all were about
about putting a stop to this
this tyranny and i used i don't use that
word lightly but that's exactly the way
we perceived it
why why did you two
have enough confidence to go ahead with
this now i mean at that point people who
were opposing the vaccine say so i'd
like to know why it bothered you so much
what what the vaccine mandate meant to
you personally but then why you were
able to presume that you knew well
enough better to
risk bringing a lawsuit against the
canadian government did you have support
from your family i mean obviously no you
didn't have support from your family you
had support from each other who who
supported you why did you have enough
confidence to do this it's a very good
question and i to be honest to this day
i don't know why i did this i was just
very angry and i felt somebody needed to
do something the politicians weren't
even speaking up as carl pointed out
um you know aaron o'toole what i mean
what a wet blanket he ended up being
just a complete rollover
um they they saw these atrocities and i
call them that going on and nobody spoke
up nobody said a thing so i felt that i
don't know why i just felt
the i felt compelled to do something
how helpful was it how helpful was it
to have sean to talk to about it i mean
now there's two of you and not one and
so that's twice as many people it did
was that made a
huge difference i mean we we've we've
been a support group for one another
since day one um we've lost we've all
made and just to clarify we've all made
huge sacrifices we've all lost
friends throughout this process
um
you know certain family members begin to
think you're a bit crazy
um but we've always had each other and
and we were so
in line and it was like it was meant to
be i said this the other day in rupa's
show you just said something very
terrible there you know as far as i'm
concerned that
you lost
friends and you and you were subject to
the disruption of your familial cohesion
and so one of the things rupa pointed to
in the beginning part of this
conversation was the fact that trudeau
found a divisive wedge issue and
exploited it for his own purposes and so
what does that mean we want to make that
concrete because that's just abstract
yeah well it means that your friends
turn your back on you or vice versa and
that now you're at the throats of your
family members and that's how civil
society decays and so
the the story here and this is why it's
so absolutely appalling that the
canadian legacy media won't pick it up
is that trudeau was willing to sow that
kind of personal level discord to say
nothing of the utter
economic and financial catastrophe that
the policies produced to do nothing but
not even really manage to cement his
grip on power
i i think um
that
it's quite possible that trudeau
the trudeau and the government in doing
what they've done have very badly
misread
um
the numbers if nothing else i think they
maybe thought that people fell into one
of two counts either they would be
people that would be pro mandates or
people that would be against them i
think it's much more nuanced than that
and certainly my experience of doing
this exercise has been that whilst yeah
okay i've lost a couple of friends but
i've got a lot of family support for
doing this and a lot of support from
people
locally
and some surprising people and i think
there's an element of a lot of folks who
disagree with it
sort of going along with it keeping
their head down that's sort of an
element of canadian politeness almost
yeah
you know and i think that's a challenge
going forward for for canada as as
canada perhaps i mean maybe trudeau's
done us all a favor by pushing us
pushing canada towards the end of what
some might see as a political adolescent
well i was thinking when cat when
trudeau called the truckers misogynists
and bigots and said that they were
fomenting a rebellion in ottawa let's
say financed by mega republicans of all
the preposterous things i thought
because i was down in the states when
that was happening talking to americans
telling them that this was the story and
they were like open jawed in amazement
including the democrats that anyone
would ever possibly believe that then i
thought well you better give the devil
his due why would canadians be willing
to
fall for that let's say and then i
thought well here's the story man it's
like for 150 years 150 odd years we've
really been able to events a reasonable
trust in our political institutions all
three political parties from right to
left governed with some degree of
credibility and decency and
predictability and then the legacy media
did their job being responsible critics
and i say you could even say that of the
cbc for many years and the education
system was reliable and the legal system
wasn't taken over by dei warriors and so
forth and so
and now all that's or a lot of that has
changed and so now canadians were being
asked by their prime minister to accept
one of two stories either
the truckers for example were
misogynists and bigots hell-bent on
destabilizing canadian democracy
or you could no longer trust the
government in a fundamental sense or the
legacy media and god only knows how much
of the education system and the courts
and so in some sense for a sensible and
conservative people the logical choice
there was to
well assume the lesser devil and think
that the truckers and the anti-vaxxers
so-called and so forth were
you know a fringe misogynist and bigot
group and that everything in the
background was really running as it
should be but as rupa's story indicates
and as i said i heard exactly the same
story several months ago from high-level
consultants to provincial governments
across canada that they were doing the
same thing ruling by paul post hawk
justifying it by science all right so
sam you got involved in this so tell us
your story and
and flesh out what's been happening on
the legal front and where this is going
to go and i want to return to carl too
about the funding issue after that
sure so good so good afternoon and
thanks uh thanks as well for having me
on the podcast uh you know this is very
much terra nova for me i'm not a
constitutional lawyer i never saw myself
getting involved in a constitutional
case of this magnitude and i think i've
said before elsewhere that uh
constitutional law was my lowest mark
ever in school and yet here i am at the
forefront of this challenge um
you know i think like like my clients uh
like karen like sean i also felt
compelled to do something if you see
there's a problematic trend happening
and you know you you have a means to
affect some sort of a change and you do
nothing about it i think in your own way
you're contributing to the problem and
everyone has a different threshold of
getting involved and quite frankly my my
threshold i i sort of crossed that
threshold that the mandatory hotel
quarantine which is a policy that i
never uh would have imagined uh ever
witnessing in a western democracy the
idea that somebody would have to
quarantine pending a result of a
you know a virus that quite frankly
we've seen in some iteration before was
uh frankly disturbing to me and that
that's really what propelled me and i
was very fortunate to get connected um
with sean and then again with carl and
it's true you know sean carl and i in
many ways have become our own little
family and we've been very fortunate to
be supportive one another in what has
been an extremely grueling uh seven
eight months that this case really
started the christmas eve i suppose you
made it a present to the government and
uh and we're still we're still in the
midst of it and here we are in august
and we're i'm you know just today i'm
submitting my final uh materials to the
court for the application so uh it's
been an extraordinary process and we've
learned as you've come to learn very
extraordinary things along the way well
can you just no one listening knows how
a case like this proceeds so could you
walk us through the basis for the case
the nature of your challenge
how the government lawyers are resisting
this and then and lay out the story of
the of the court battle and where it's
headed
sure so i you know fundamentally there's
sort of two ways in which
litigation proceeds to the court system
the one way is an action and an action
is sort of your what you what most
people come to know in like tv courtroom
dramas where you have a judge and you
have a witness and you know there's this
idea that people are yelling and
cross-examining and they're getting
evidence orally which is what we call
viva voce evidence that's not what's
happening here this is proceeding by way
of an application and an application is
largely a paper-based record so what
happens is people put in evidence to the
core
and they do that by way of an affidavit
and you can think of an affidavit as a
story
uh and you get stories from the
applicants like sean and carl about how
the mandates have infringed their
charter rights and you also get uh you
know stories i'll just call them a
little bit more informally from experts
who talk about the science and different
policy considerations and then each side
has to do that so both sides have to
produce their evidentiary record which
is as i mentioned exclusively done by
paper and then what happens is we we
participate in what is called the cross
examination
in an action the cross-examination is
done live in front of the judge and the
judge is there to assess the credibility
of the witnesses and await testimony in
an application which is what we're doing
that is done with private you know
privately in a board room with a court
reporter and there's endless hours of
cross-examinations based on what people
have said in their affidavits their
story and so a lot of the evidence that
rupa's referring to came out in the
process of that cross-examination
because as you know our our system or
our justice system is premise on the
adversarial context and the idea that if
if competing evidence is tested the
truth lies somewhere and the truth will
come out
and we've we spent may and june uh
literally two months just exclusively in
cross-examination uh we we then take the
affidavit records and we take the
cross-examination transcripts we file
that with the court
and then we appear at a hearing and in
that hearing we make reference to the
evidence both in the affidavits and the
expert reports and also in the
cross-examination transcripts and it's
just submissions from lawyers in front
of the judge okay so what's the nature
of the challenge the government put in
these mandates and they were mandated
and and required and you're objecting to
that what exactly is the objection and
and and
why are you even vaguely allowed to do
this let's say
well i should hope we're allowed to do
this or else we have a much larger
constitutional crisis than i currently
think we do but you know first and
foremost there is a prima facie
infringement of sean uh carl and and
those canadians who are not vaccinated a
prima facie infringement of their
section six charter right which is the
right of mobility and i think it's one
of the most fundamental rights that we
have in the charter it goes to the very
essence of what it means to live a
dignified existence the notion that you
know a man or woman can get up and move
about their country and leave their
country at their will and that's been
directly engaged in this charter
challenge and
in a context quite frankly that i've
never seen before a lot of the section
six cases deal with issues like
extradition deportation i've never seen
a case like this that a government
policy in reference to a public health
mandate has had the effect of preventing
their own citizens for moving between
provinces or from leaving their country
in fact i've i can tell you right now i
have not found a case like this other
than a case in newfoundland in the
context of the covet 19 pandemic and the
second thing which i think is also very
novel here is the government has
effectively created sophie's choice
right they're asking canadians to do a
little bit of horse trading with their
charter rights you cannot simultaneously
exercise your right to travel
while also exercising your section 7
right to protect your bodily autonomy
what do i mean by that you need to make
a decision
you are either going to get on a plane
and get vaccinated
or you are not going to get vaccinated
and you're going to forfeit your right
to use federally regulated
transportation system
i think that's actually constitutionally
unprecedented i've never seen a scenario
where
a government policy has created such a
direct conflict
such that it coerces you to choose one
over the other and and let's be clear
about that um sean and carl were coerced
into not traveling uh because they
wanted to protect their decision-making
over what is an inherently private
choice eye vaccination
um and so both of those issues are very
much engaged and it's on this basis that
we've brought this application okay and
so what's the gut fine i got it so
what's the what's the government counter
claim now hypothetically
the emergency was such that the science
indicated that the government could
suspend canadian charter rights okay
what kind of evidence do you need when
can you suspend rights and when you
suspend rights by what principles are
you allowed to suspend them
well
we were we were on a quest to answer a
lot of those questions um as you know
obviously no right is absolute and if
the government has a compelling
objective such that they may need to
infringe a charter right they are
entitled to do so if they come to the
table with the right type of evidence
right there is a reverse onus i mean
once my clients show that their rights
have been breached the government then
has to go to court and convince the
court that they were justified in doing
so
and that's where this fight is really
happening what is the justification what
is what is so compelling
about the risk of the unvaccinated
flying
that you believe it is it is permissible
in our democratic society to force
unvaccinated people into making the
decision that i just described
and i can tell you that uh having been
living this case for the last seven
months
the approach the government has seemed
to take
is the casual application of general
scientific principles to the
transportation sector
they reason that because vaccination is
generally good and desirable everybody
should do it
and because it provides some sort sort
of a transient benefit you should do it
it's generally desirable it's good
for public health policies and we're
going to use uh means available to us to
encourage and incentivize that behavior
well there's a difference between
there's a difference between should and
must
let's say not least and then of course
we have the problem rupa pointed out
which was
the scientific evidence for the utility
of the travel ban itself was apparently
entirely lacking so at the moment and i
don't know how this is playing out in
court but in the context of this
conversation and other conversations
i've had that are similar the evidence
legal and scientific on the government
and let's also say moral shall we on the
government side seems pretty well how
about we call it appallingly and
unprecedentedly weak
well it's interesting that you use the
word morality there because i actually
in cross examinations i did ask
or the individual who's responsible for
the development of the policy whether
there is an ethical consideration uh
behind the vaccine mandate and the
answer is that there is not
which is astounding because there's
actually an ethical frame now it gets
better there's actually an ethical
framework available by the government
online that is supposedly used to guide
ethical decision making in the context
of the pandemic
um so
and so that wasn't used either
no
so if we if we tried to give the devil
is due and and so i'll speak as a critic
of rupa here
her claim fundamentally is that this was
nothing but blatant cynical narcissistic
uh politicking of the lowest order and
we might say well no that's probably an
oversimplification there must have been
some other justification
generated like in good faith and then
also post hoc as at least as a cover-up
but
essentially in some sense what you seem
to be saying is that you've uncovered
very little evidence of any of that in
the in the cross-examinations
so even as a scam it wasn't a very good
one there is evidence that you know
vaccines can help protect against
developing severe outcomes and death
um the question is how compelling is
that evidence how long does that
protection actually last but the bigger
question is why does that matter in the
context of the transportation system
when you're talking about the fact that
travel contributes one percent or less
by the government's own data it's a
covet 19 transmission and somehow this
is the targeted industry that we're
going to focus on and impose a
vaccination requirement as a
precondition for travel why isn't anyone
comparing that to the general
epidemiological situation in the
community and here's a surprise for you
nobody did that
nobody looked at nobody looked to
compare what's the positivity like in
different settings in the general
community because if you're not
traveling where are you you're at home
you're in the supermarket you're
watching soccer you're watching a
basketball game all of which by the way
you can do without being vaccinated but
you can't travel which is also one of
the safest places to be i mean we have
an expert um
uh you know who's who has testified that
the
and and this is public knowledge i mean
the filtration system and modern
aircrafts are better than the filtration
systems in operating rooms we'll get
back to more with dr peterson in just a
second first founded by dr leonard
garente a renowned mit researcher and 30
year student of the science of aging
elysium health is on a mission to
translate critical scientific
advancements in aging research into
accessible health products and
technologies matter elysium's brain
aging supplement was developed in
partnership with the university of
oxford mater does what no other product
does it slows the shrinking of our
brains for most of us brain shrinkage
begins in our early 30s and impacts
memory learning and even physical
activity lifestyle factors such as
alcohol consumption smoking and poor
sleep habits accelerate this process
matter is patented and clinically proven
to slow the age-related loss in the
brain's memory centers by an average of
86 percent many matter customers have
reported improvements in memory and
cognition go to
explorematter.com jordan and enter code
jbp10 at checkout to save 10 off matter
prepaid subscriptions as well as other
elysium health supplements
okay so so you just dropped two
bombshells there eh
not that there haven't been any others
dropped during this conversation but two
i'm going to highlight them the first is
that by the government's own admission
travel was a vector for the transmission
of less than one percent of the virus so
now we're talking at best about
a one percent probability of contracting
a disease that has something
approximating a two percent mortality
rate if that and that's particularly
true only for people who are extremely
ill or extremely elderly who are other
have other compromising health
conditions so it's a negligible risk of
a negligible risk but that justifies
charter rights suspension and then you
said something equally
appalling which was that anyone with any
sense would have rank ordered
transmission risks right across all the
possible oh
let's say across the range of 95
of the social interactions and
activities that canadians engage in we
would have rank ordered that in terms of
danger one of the things we would have
found out by the way is that locking
people up together was probably a
dangerous thing to do rather than a good
thing to do but in any case that's what
you do at the policy level right here's
the dangers rank ordered let's knock
them off from the top down but you said
none of that happened either there was
no methodology for doing a comparative
analysis and that's that's reminiscent
to me of the fact that we we locked down
everybody at home and we blew apart the
supply chain we never did any analysis
whatsoever to find out if the economic
consequences that were going to be more
devastating physically psychologically
and in the long term than the epidemic
itself and they certainly they're going
to end up being far more devastating
than the epidemic i think by all
evidence generated to date so bruce
maybe we'll turn over to you for for a
bit to get a bit of an overview and then
i'm going to go back to to
to um
to talk about the funding situation then
we'll go back to rupa bruce
two questions come to mind for me right
away the first is if the government
let's say it more
clearly
if the mandarins in the trudeau cabinet
the charter
for the purposes of their instrumental
politicking
how serious is that offense
in legal terms and what is the recourse
right well let's back up just a step
before you get to the charter even
there's a principle
in governance which is this
governments
can't just create any policies that they
like
there's a there's a difference between
the government
and the legislature
and anything a government does in terms
of making rules it has to have
authorization to do in a statute that
the legislature has passed
and in this case
in the case of the of the airline
mandate we're talking about the
aeronautics act
now the aeronautics act
gives to cabinet and the minister of
transportation
the power to make all kinds of rules
about all kinds of things that deal with
flight with their the airline industry
but that's not an open-ended discretion
the fact of the matter is that
governments make policies that are
politically motivated all the time
and and they're allowed to do that as
long as they can fit them within the
authority that they have in the in in a
statute
but the problem for the government in
this respect is this
that the rationale that they've given
if they given one at all
does not
fit within the the authority that the
aeronautics act gives so in other words
the minister is allowed to create
interim orders
that have to do with the safety
of the airline industry of the
passengers of the crew and so on
and the
premise
of a vaccine mandate
is that if you have the vaccine then you
won't get infected
and if you d if you don't have the
vaccine then you will get infected
but in the case of this vaccine that has
really never been the case it was it was
pretended to be early on but that has
never been really the official claim at
least from the manufacturers of this
vaccine so if you don't have that excuse
if the vaccine will not prevent
infection
then what else do you have
so is there okay so there's two issues
here then i think that you just
delineated one is that
correct me if i'm wrong that
the it isn't obvious that the trudeau
cabinet had the proper governmental
authority to impose this mandate because
it exceeded
the purview of what would be generally
uh accept acceptable practice on the
legislative front so it was a an
overreach of power independent of the
fact that it violated the charter have i
got that right just put aside the
charter first sure you just just on the
basis of pure
authority and the way government works
we have separation of powers yes
governments and legislatures now i know
if to most people those two things will
look like the same thing because the
same
people are heading both of these
branches you know the prime minister
sits in the house of commons and the
cabinet does as well and they seem to
run the show in the legislature but
they're two different things
and the legislature must pass a statute
that gives the authority to the
executive branch which is what the
cabinet heads
to make certain rules now
though that authority is limited
according to its terms
and those terms in this case are you can
make rules about safety
but the problem is that if you don't
have
the prevention of infection
as one of the characteristics of the
vaccine
then the next question is well okay but
but then what's the safety thing you're
doing
well rupa and the plaintiffs and their
representing lawyer have already made
the claim that
the evidence on the safety front not
only wasn't there to begin with but
couldn't even be scrounged up post hawk
so that seems absurd on the on the face
of it well right okay so so if i may so
i mean
what rupert's article was about and what
and what this the what sans cross
examination managed to achieve
was essentially an admission
that there wasn't really any uh solid
scientific recommendation
from the from from the health and
science people
to the transport people
that this ought to be done should i i i
think i think that cross-examination was
very well done and it might be
interesting just to just to read you a
very short sentence from uh uh jennifer
little that rupa was talking about in
her cross-examination right so the
question was
are there any emails any briefs any
reports
from health canada or public health
recommending
the implementation of a mandatory
vaccination policy for travel
and after a long pause
the answer was this
i do not recall
a document from the public health agency
or health canada to transport canada
recommending that transport canada take
this approach
well in other words there was there was
no
solid written
recommendation to do this
and right well that's that that sounds
clear enough so that it's not even a
matter of opinion
right because we can always bandy about
the objection that's opinion rupa you
have a comment yeah just to quickly jump
in here jordan um
just picking up from what bruce was
saying um that uh you know the e the
damning email exchange that i mentioned
in my story uh it's about a senior trans
uh transport canada official who is
emailing his counterpart at p hack and
asking this individual look the
mandate's going to be going into going
into effect in a few days we need we
need some scientific rationale some
scientific evidence as soon as possible
he doesn't hear from this individual for
a few days now it's like literally where
the clock is ticking and he presses her
and he says we need something fairly
quick so please could you get something
to us soon and she eventually responds
to him and uh it's just uh generic
homilies about how
how vaccines are good for you you should
get vaccinated and we believe
that vaccines prevent severe disease and
so on and so forth the question is what
does this have to do with the
transportation sector how is it
preventing transmission how is it how is
it doing
how is it specific to the travel sector
that's the question and i will also tell
you one more thing that i couldn't go
get into my story again this goes back
to jennifer little she's asked about the
um
the implementation of the mandate uh and
she says look you know had we done had
we implemented this mandate when 50 of
eligible canadians had been vaccinated
it would have created to use her own
words chaos in the system if this were
really about public policy public health
policy uh shouldn't vaccination have
been that should have been the primary
consideration but what they do is they
wait till 80 of canadians have been
vaccinated where a high number of high
percentage of canadians are vaccinated
to implement a vaccine mandate which is
just extraordinary
so and i agree and just to finish off
this thought to get to to go back to
this this idea that the rationale let's
let's just give them the benefit of the
doubt let's say that the actual
health-based scientific rationale is as
rupa alludes to that you know vaccines
are generally a good thing
and that
that having a vaccine mandate
will incentivize people to get a vaccine
when they wouldn't otherwise do so that
is it's not about being on the plane
it's about the fact that people who want
to be on a plane will have to get baxed
okay here's the problem if that's the
rationale
that is not about the safety of air
travel
and that means that is not an order
authorized under the act
uh-huh so that's the legal issue well
the moral issue might be
well if you have to use compulsion then
maybe that's a sign that your policy is
ill-formulated and also i would say from
an epidemiological perspective
or in a psychological perspective
in order for that argument to to be
credible you'd have to have
documentation showing that if you added
compulsion
to the vaccination process that that
would actually produce less resistance
to the vaccine rather than more
and that evidence would be very hard to
come by because there's a certain number
of people that as soon as you force them
to do anything
even if it's in their own good
for their own good
even if that's documented the mere fact
that you're forcing them is going to
convince them to tell you to go to hell
and i'm for one very happy that there is
a minority of people like that
so so that the evidence that
i don't think there's any good evidence
for the use of compulsion
in public health or at least there's no
evidence suggesting that policy based on
compulsion shouldn't be regarded as
inferior to
policy based on rational dialogue and
and let's say positive motivation and
consensus which is a much better grounds
for
what would you say the consent of the
governed how about that so can we turn
bruce to the charter issue then
have you have you elaborated out on the
first one enough well yeah sure so so
the as sam alluded to the this
weighing up of rationales will take
place
under a section one analysis and you'll
get the section one only after
the breach of the charter right in this
case section six has been established
and so i would say in this case i mean
the the this cross-examination
is terrific for the purpose of that
section one analysis okay tell us about
tell us what a section one analysis
means right so so section one analysis
basically says section one says
you know all of the rights and freedoms
in in the charter
are are subject to reasonable limits
if the government can can demonstrate
that the infringement of the right is
justified
in a free and democratic society then
we're going to say okay
and in order to show that it's justified
the government has to show that the
problem that they were trying to solve
was serious enough that it justified
these measures
that they chose a proportional way of
doing so that it caused an infringement
as as as little as possible under the
circumstances and so on so
to sam's point that charter rights and
freedoms are not absolute and of course
they're not
section one over time has shown to be a
pretty large
uh gate uh wide enough for the
government to drive up you know to drive
a truck through sometimes yeah truck
yeah right
well brian peckford a former former
premier of canada and one of the
uh founders of the charter has
uh vociferously objected to the
government's use of section one saying
that he knows perfectly well as a
consequence of discussing the issue with
the people who designed the charter to
begin with back in the 1980s that none
of them intended that section one be
used in a circumstance as trivial and
uncertain as this one
right but so to to give the courts in
this particular moment the benefit of
the doubt
uh that's not actually what section one
says i mean if section one had been
intended to apply you know only in the
most extreme existential emergency
situation
like it could have worked that way if
that is what it had said but but the way
it is worded it's at least possible to
interpret section one as
giving you know pretty loosely goosey
leeway
for figuring out whether or not it's
justified in any particular case
yeah well maybe maybe section one needs
to be revisited in a really serious
manner listen the whole charter needs to
be revisited but unfortunately we have
created now such an onerous amending
uh formula
that that becomes
almost politically impossible to do and
even if it wasn't i'm afraid that the
the political circumstances right now is
such that if you opened up the charter
in the constitution you'd have a good
constituency size constituency on the
other side trying to make things worse
from our point of view right so okay so
let's let's talk about the courts
momentarily so
bruce i know you have some concerns
about the politicization of courts in
canada politicization of the legal
enterprise
and the judiciary um
and you're certainly not alone in that
do you have any
faith that
this
case can receive a fair trial
oh i would like to think so sure yes
look listen we have we have a lot of
good judges in this country a lot of
very
fine jurists with terrific legal minds
and yes we have seen signs of
of what i would say ideological bias for
example just let me give you one small
example at his first press conference
when he became the chief justice of the
supreme court
uh chief justice wagner held a press
conference
and he was asked by a reporter if he
agreed that the supreme court of canada
was the most progressive in the world
and he agreed with the statement and he
said he was very proud of that fact the
most progressive
court in the world in a progressive
country which is the way things ought to
be now that is a a a a an expression
of an ideological preference and that
that's
not what neutrality is supposed to mean
inside a courtroom but on the other hand
we have
good judges who are able to carry out
what i believe to be the proper judicial
role we saw it for example a short time
ago when um on on in her bail review
um for for the bill review of tamara
leech
a supreme court justice
reviewed the facts and the law in a
meticulous and careful and proper way
and
and set her out on bail because that was
the right decision okay so so if if a
judge is acting properly tell me if i've
got this right
first of all under the the english
common law system and
and its variants let's say that operate
in canada
a judge
is supposed to take the current
circumstances of polity and
individuality and social change into
account but fundamentally remain within
the framework
uh
evolved as a consequence of precedent
and previous law and so every decision
is supposed to be tied back to a network
of previous decisions even though there
has to be some transformation let's say
on the edges is that a reasonable way of
looking at it see well yes exactly so so
one way it's been put is that the the
and we have a common law system right so
there's going to be some evolution over
time but the way they put it is it's
supposed to be evolution and not
revolution you're not supposed to have
the law being sort of handed down by the
courts the law making role is that of
the legislature
not not right not the courts yes well
and we've seen some decay of that in
canada as legislators have abandoned
their duty and left difficult decisions
to a more activist judiciary and this is
a very bad thing okay okay so but you
think you think in this case at least
and perhaps in most court proceedings in
canada that the judiciary is
sufficiently intact so that a ruling on
a case like this could be trusted well
you see it's impossible to tell because
you don't know you know who you're going
to get or what's going to happen so so
the track record during covid
hasn't been all that great because what
one thing the courts have
have have demonstrated
is is not not not to
every single judge
but but as a pattern is on an unwavering
commitment to the government's cobit
narrative
so far as to allow some judges to take
judicial notice
uh for example the the the uh the safety
and benefit of the vaccine and the risk
of the virus without any evidence
uh and so it's it's neither black or
white one way or the other and okay okay
sam sam
carl shawn do you guys feel that
you've been through this now for about
eight or nine months do you feel that as
you've observed the wheels of justice
grinding slowly forward that you
that your
sense of justice has been served i know
the outcome hasn't occurred yet but how
are you feeling about the process
i think it did earlier on
um
it seems sort of um
this is just my opinion of course but it
seems to have deteriorated a little bit
in the last few months but uh
i i i don't know just just just the
attitude um
i'll probably let sam speak to this more
but um
like early on we
the government are famous you know just
to get this out there for referring
throwing us curveballs um right off the
bat uh they tried they filed a motion um
out of the blue and we wondered why they
didn't want to cross-examine us and we
found out a few days later why
is they filed a motion to um have our
affidavits um
uh struck
so and i'll let sam explain that a
little bit better to you
so
these are difficult cases uh for obvious
reasons and i also think they're
difficult cases in the social political
climate that they that they happen in uh
but i'm confident that with the record
that we've produced
with the approach that we've taken uh
which is a very no-nonsense
nitty-gritty pay attention to details be
very you know be very thorough uh
approach i i think you we have a quite
frankly very good shot at winning and i
have faith that we we will get a fair
and impartial hearing before the federal
court um and and i think to a large
extent you know
we are and we have been in this case
very resilient and you have to be i mean
there are cri there are some
cross-examination transcripts where i
have probably had to spend close to an
hour to get an answer
and it it it wears you it wears you out
right
it's the first time ever and you know
i'm i'm frequently in the commercial
list with with big players trying to you
know resolve multi-million dollar
litigation disputes and i can tell you
the government is way more resilient
trying to get a straight answer uh
trying to get a sense of what's
happening why it happened when it
happened and who was involved it's it's
it's a tough process but i think like
anything else if you do your homework
and you're prepared and you're willing
to
you know do you know take difficult
steps i mean we have brought so many
inter emotions uh to ensure that
procedurally this moved in a way that we
thought was fair and appropriate um
it it it it it extracts a big sacrifice
from you and it's a very resource
intensive process but i'm very confident
that the commitment we've made and the
dedication we've made is going to yield
a good result for us okay well that's
that's very heartening to hear you know
because your story basically is that
this is very difficult and it it
requires painstaking effort but if you
do it properly it's still a fair game
and thank god for that and so maybe i
could ask you guys too if you wouldn't
mind let's let's go to the funding side
of this how much has this action
cost and let's look at that two ways
there's the outright costs right so
let's say the legal costs but then
there's also the costs in terms of time
and involvement because
sean you and carl must have been
spending untold hours on this i would
think on a daily basis and so there's a
huge personal cost there so
carl yeah
let's uh
what's what's happening on the funding
front how much has this cost and what
has it cost you and sean personally
well i mean
actions like this uh
are always going to cost you know at
least hundreds of thousands of dollars
right that's that's the reality of it um
and um
and if you lose and suffer adverse costs
awards then then worse again you know so
it's a it's going to be an expensive
action however you try and do it the
cost of um
the cost of the work that a lawyer has
to do is you know is going to be in
there the cost of
um working with um
you know expert witnesses and and as the
intensity of the case builds and more
motions are submitted then of course the
cost bills now
anybody who's
you know had the unfortunate pleasure of
syrian government in the past knows that
one government tactic in the same way as
many
uh
larger aggressive litigants is to try
and drown the smaller guy in costs okay
well so we have an answer to one earlier
question which is well why don't more
people stand up and the answer to that
is well because it's unbelievably
expensive and it yeah and it consumes
your whole life and so first of all that
means most people literally cannot do it
they don't have the time because they
don't have they don't have the excess
resources in some sense that allows for
the time
i i'm not suggesting you guys were
sitting around on your laurels but you
at least had the financial acumen and
resources to make something like this
vaguely possible and that would put you
in a small percentage of people to begin
with and then you'd have to be willing
to do it and then you'd have to find the
right lawyer
and then you'd have to be able to
withstand eight months of well and
that's a lot of trouble on the personal
and the
and the judicial and the cognitive front
so it's a very difficult undertaking how
have you funded it so far and what's
been the story on that front um and
it's been a mix of two things um it's
been a mix of personal funding um and um
also some
you know helpful donors that have you
know offered to come forward but the
majority of it ultimately is in our case
is going to be personal funding at this
time
and i think the funding of these cases
is a very interesting aspect in itself
and i think the structure of the
organizations that do this work in
canada is something that's worth um you
know discussing um
from my perspective i don't see the the
freedoms guaranteed by the charter
should be
political but there seems to be a
tendency that
organizations perhaps more to the right
of center are left with the battle of
fighting for them and i find that
curious because the loss of freedoms
affects everybody in canada wherever you
sit in the political spectrum so we have
in canada a small group of organizations
that take on this kind of work and they
rely on lots and lots of small donors
occasionally large donors perhaps you
know justin center for constitutional
freedoms canadian constitutional
foundation and some recent new entrants
um you know such as uh you know the
democracy fund and so on and so forth
and indeed we're putting together a
um a charitable foundation which will be
up and running shortly called the
institute for freedom and justice which
we're hoping to fund in slightly
different way so it can take on two
issues one being
key areas of litigation in relation to
this kind of constitutional challenge
and equally as importantly and i think
is you know
supporting people who want to provide
additional education to canadians
regarding the freedoms that should be
protected by the charter in the first
place too few people know about their
the the charter and about the content of
and in fact i'd say one more thing
jordan
and we were talking about section one
earlier and bruce and i have had one or
two conversations over time about this
but i've been fishing around from the
start trying to find out where section
one even came from and what i found was
that it was very difficult to find
anybody who knew and i asked some people
that we asked some people that you'd
know i mean you know we asked preston
manning for example and yeah that is
really interested in this and he said
that's a great question i have no idea i
i asked brian beckford
um brian and i have had some emails
about this and
um and brian doesn't really know where
section one comes from i you know it's
it's there but who wrote it who drafted
it
i don't know section 33 we know has a
connection to peter loheed
but where does section one come from um
and i've been grubbing around trying to
find out why i've had people in the
parliamentary library looking at this
suppose it was a concession to quebec
claims for sovereignty
um
no i don't think so i think that's more
i mean section 33 is interesting because
that was in the that was put forward and
from what i can see
connected with peter peter loheed and
then
pietro does seem to want a sunset clause
in there and that seemed to be the
concession but section 33 is sanitary
doesn't apply to mobility rights
in the charter and um but section one
the best i can think and i can find out
so far is i think you have to look to
the mid-1970s
and possibly the
international covenant on civil and
political rights which is binding on
canada um but if you read that carefully
there section one could possibly be an
attempt to sweep up clause to catch some
of the issues that arise out of that
document and at the time of the timing
1982 that would seem to fit that some
consideration after the iccpr came in
well that's a great mystery you know the
fact that the the biggest the biggest
set of possible restrictions on our most
fundamental rights
is based on a clause whose authorship is
unclear and whose intent is unspecified
sean do you have anything else to say on
the uh
funding front before
we return to rupa i'd like to take this
opportunity to i mean
early on i as i said i started to go
fund me we closed that down with the
freedom convoy ran into problems and
gofundme
sort of um
you know uh stuck a knife in their back
so to speak so i i
i shut it down and i moved it over to
give send go
um but i but i just quickly wanted to
say thank you to all of uh we have
supporters on social media and so on
that have supported us through give
saying go on i wanted to thank everybody
that's donated thus far
is that still operating
yes it is that the gift saying go it's
the canadian freedom litigation fund
so if people want to donate to your
cause it's the canadian freedom
litigation fund
at give send go that's correct yes and
also that'll be funding uh another case
that
i'll be running is um
filing an application and injunction
against arrive can and the quarantine oh
yes there's a good idea so yes so so
everyone who's listening some of you are
going to be thinking well what can i do
about this and well there is something
you can do there's two lawsuits pending
they're both going to be very expensive
i'm sure many of you who are watching
listening are somewhat perturbed and
annoyed let's say about that bloody
arrive can app which is a complete
disaster and an unnecessary addition to
the passports which we also can't get
and so rupa one thing we might derive
from this conversation especially in
relationship to carl's last comments was
that if the press was doing its damn job
then maybe private citizens wouldn't
have to be taken on the government so
now you have this
story it's a red-hot story as far as i
can tell
it's a blazing hot story and you can't
get people to publish it in canada in
the mainstream journals and or
newspapers and this is even the case
get
despite the fact that you're actually a
columnist for the national post and the
national post is a conservative
newspaper i have some associations with
it they'll publish my work
fairly re
fairly uh frequently and i've had a good
working relationship with them but like
why are no canadian newspapers of note
we won't even talk about the tv stations
but
especially not the cbc but why are no
canadian newspapers of note picking this
up and why in the world do you have to
deal with the with the englishman
instead and the telegraph let's say
that'll be better for the story anyways
but it's still appalling and so tell us
about your experience with this yeah
it's uh it's a great question jordan i
um you know i worked with barry wise and
peter savodnik my editor before uh when
i wrote uh a piece on the trucker's
protest back in february and uh it uh
you know i had a great impact i think it
was an important contribution at that
time uh to dent uh what i felt was an
incredibly corrosive narrative that had
been in place at that time which
characterized the protesters as white
supremacists racists and bigots and so
on and so forth
you were with the truckers weren't you
you actually went you went there like a
journalist sort of
yeah i live in the area and i really
went out of curiosity i just wanted to
see what this was about
on the first day that first weekend i
spent about 10 8 10 hours in the
freezing cold it was one of the coldest
days of the winter at that time um and i
walked everywhere and i was pleasantly
surprised in fact it was a very um it
was it felt like canada day and i even
tweeted about it and said you know it's
like it feels like canada day in the
winter
and i was immediately criticized for it
uh for romanticizing what was uh
what is suppose what was supposed to be
and would be insurrection and uh and i
just didn't get that impression at all i
i i met some of the nicest people and i
spent um uh two weeks or three weeks
during the course of the protest
speaking to everybody the truckers the
protesters anybody who wanted to chat
with me i managed to have a conversation
with them sometimes these were long
conversations i would be up till two
three in the morning speaking to people
and um and then i wrote this piece for
um barry wise's sub stack at that time
and she reached out to me and she she'd
seen my tweets and she wanted me to do
something for them i really enjoyed
their professionalism i and my piece had
a great impact and i
uh wanted to continue that relationship
with them um so for me it was not
necessarily uh you know is it canadian
media versus some someone else i just i
really just enjoyed the experience
learning experience that i
and i just wanted to continue to learn
by uh you know but through working with
them um but uh
having said that
your question is a good one why isn't
anybody in the mainstream media picking
this up um why is it that um uh you know
no no one wants to talk about it there
isn't there hasn't even been an
acknowledgement of the piece so far i
haven't even been trolled by anybody by
any of the mainstream commentators for
writing this piece there has been
literally no response it's silence it's
looking the other way they're talking
about everything else under the sun
and it's extraordinary uh and i don't
quite know what to make of it i think it
turns back to something we talked about
earlier i think that the bitter pill
that canadians are being asked to
swallow is so large that they're choking
on it and i can understand that you can
have some sympathy for that you know i
mean some of us bruce and i for example
and
i know bruce quite well we've been
observing this sort of thing developing
for like eight years something like that
or longer than that oh longer longer
than that longer than that quite a while
yeah how long how long 10 years how long
at least a decade in concrete terms but
it's been i think it's been
in development for for decades yes yes
yes well it's sort of gone like this
right it's it's been accelerating but i
think most people and most people don't
think about political issues that often
and that's because they're busy with
their lives and they also don't know
what to
believe or who to believe and that's
certainly being scrambled now and so i i
think that's why
your story
this is what stunned me so much about
the the continual scandalous behavior of
the liberals i don't think that people
can process it because my sense of it
looking at it is that every week and
that was certainly the case earlier this
year
particularly especially when the
emergencies act was was brought about
every week something
so scandalous is produced by the federal
government that under normal conditions
it would immediately produce the
dissolution of a reasonable
parliamentary government
and it just happens one week after
another and i don't think people can and
then the media covers it very badly but
i don't think people can believe it plus
of course the cbc for example is 100 in
the hip pocket of the liberals not least
as a consequence of the 1.2
billion dollar a year subsidy which
enables them to report no news to no
viewers and so i think i think that's
this wall of of of ignorance that you're
running into you said it's got to be
something like that rupa because why at
least aren't the progressives hassling
you let's say even that's not happening
no i'm i'm just being attacked by a
bunch of bots a bunch of uh nameless
trolls uh who've uh you know who are
going around calling me a russian agent
i've been called a seditionist uh that
these no the first of all they said the
documents didn't even exist and that i
was making it all up and then the
federal court uh sends out a tweet a
couple of days later saying given the
interest uh in this case we're actually
making these documents more easily
available to the public so that shut
them up but then they had to move to
something else that i was some you know
a russian agent or you know uh you know
i'm lying about this and i'm i think
you've just i think you've just
internalized your oppression that's my
that's my sense of the situation so so
in any case you haven't been able to
promote this story
in any of the normative channels i mean
barry weiss's sub stack is not a minor
league operation it's very influential
so that's that's definitely something
but it's but it's definitely outside the
normative structure of media discourse
particularly in canada and i think it's
quite striking that the telegraph has at
least opened up an invitation to you to
continue this kind of investigative work
and that that isn't happening in canada
it's like why are newspapers not willing
to jump on a hot story well this is
extraordinary jordan so i was speaking
to a journalist and uh she told me that
uh you know
you know newsrooms are just you know
just don't have the money anymore they
just don't have the resources to put
together a bunch of people and i said
wait a second
yeah i said wait a second i'm a
freelance columnist i did this entirely
on my own i read through over a thousand
pages of transcripts over a few days i
spent uh you know i was i was up late
into the night working through them and
thinking about the you know how i could
frame this story if i can do it you can
do it you can so easily do it uh you
know you just you just need one other
person maybe um
you know to work with you i just don't
buy this excuse at all initially i
wanted to give them the benefit of the
doubt you know they've only now
discovered the documents uh let them go
through it and uh and and maybe they
will eventually get to it it's now been
more than a week since the story broke
it's been about three weeks since the
documents have been out
and it's just extraordinary that no
one's really touched it i will also
point this out to you that it's even the
independent media the independent media
which constantly rails against the
mainstream media
rightly so even they haven't gone to
town
on the story and wha i
can't
figure out why
what exactly is going on
okay well we're all trying to figure out
what's going on that's that's for sure
rupa wrote this story for everyone who's
listening just so we're we remember what
we're doing here rupert wrote a story
about a week ago that she published with
barry weiss uh court documents reveal
canada's travel ban
had no scientific basis and so that's
quite the headline and so i read that
and thought well this probably needs to
be talked about and so you referred to
bruce pardy who's a constitutional
lawyer and to carl harrison and sean
rickard who've taken out a court case
against the canadian government and
their legal counsel
sam
preslos
and we've walked through the story and
so what are you hoping to have happen
that's another thing i'd like to know
yeah no good question i i guess the most
important
thing for me right now and well for all
of us as a group um and anybody who's
following along for the ride
is that this case be heard uh right now
they filed a mootless motion against us
as you know because the travel ban has
been suspended hasn't been revoked it's
been suspended and they've made it quite
clear that they can
bring it back at any time that they so
choose
and the attorney general of canada has
filed the mutinous motion against us so
on september 19th
we are all heading down to ottawa for a
public hearing we just uh sam is
actually in the process of filing all of
our final submissions and everything
just to fight that battle before we even
get to our end game which is the uh the
hearing in late october
so
to me um
you know
all the support has been absolutely
amazing and we hope that continues okay
well let's let's stop with that again so
i want i want you to say again
exactly what the listeners and viewers
can do
to help you continue this battle so they
can go to give send go that's give send
go and what are they looking up
they're looking at the canadian uh
freedom litigation fund
canadian
freedom
litigation fund okay so if those of you
who are watching find this compelling
and you'd like to do something about the
fact that your rights are being
abrogated by uh government hell bent on
instrumental uh partial tyranny uh then
there's something you can do you can
send some money they can also find me on
social media my name will be on the
screen here somewhere and at the bottom
notes and uh yeah we'll be more than
happy to have people follow along and
support us and
and i really appreciate what you've done
jordan in getting this story out as many
well it's so i think it's a privilege i
look at this and i think well unless i'm
completely out of my mind and lots of
people think i am this is like the
hottest news story that's hit canada in
15 years and i get to tell everybody
about it so why is that not a good deal
apart from the fact that it's utterly
horrible and contemptible and appalling
and pathetic and and weaselly and
deceitful and instrumental and uh and
and what
traumatically unbelievable okay carl
you're right on the money oh man it's
something man what a world carl
yeah i mean i but echoed sean's comment
that
you know when you start these actions
you want them to be heard and this
is so important in that regard it's such
an enormous matter of public interest
and it has
huge
ramifications and repercussions and
risks if a canadian government can get
away with this kind of behavior where it
makes routine health choices uh coercive
it coerces people to make routine health
charges and choices in order for them to
take part in normal aspects of canadian
society and to exercise the sort of
freedoms that everybody would expect in
a modern liberal democracy in the west
and that's hugely important to get it
heard i'm sure sam can say something
about the power the issues with the
mootness motion and that comes up i
think on september 19th or 21st as shaun
has said and if we if we're successful
in persuading the court that this matter
isn't moved and should be heard then
there's a five-day hearing in ottawa a
public hearing in person in ottawa in
the federal court from october the 31st
and that's an opportunity for the media
to actually finally engage with as you
say perhaps the biggest story in canada
in a decade about how the government has
behaved around this particular issue on
what possible grounds could they find it
moot
i'll let some deal with the detail but
it's actually it's i'll say this right
i'll say this because i found this this
isn't really a legal point but it's
curious i found i find it odd that the
attorney general of canada is saying to
the canadian people please ignore my
cabinet colleagues please ignore mr
algabra please ignore mr giuklow when
they say to you in a formal public
statement that these measures have been
suspended and we've got every intention
of bringing them back in the fall if we
feel like it and david lametty the
attorney general of canada is saying
please ignore these guys they happen to
be my cabinet uh colleagues and one of
them happens to run the transport
ministry and one of them happens to run
the ministry of health but please ignore
them take no notice because they haven't
been suspended these measures have been
lifted for good and that's why the issue
is moot and clearly it's not that's not
moot at all a mootness in canada
something sam can come on to
peculiar here not the same in the uk not
the same in the u.s
this is an issue which can be repeated
in the short term and is
is worthy of review well you'd think
even if it's even if it's moot now which
it isn't that doesn't mean that there's
not something to be said about what
happened
so what happened is unconscionable all
right sam over to you
well mootness is a funny thing
especially in the context of a pandemic
mootness in the context of a pandemic is
a very different consideration i think
than mootness ordinarily and i'll give
you a very concrete example of that a
couple of months ago before the interior
court of appeal i was i was doing a
constitutional challenge on the
restrictions on outdoor gathering as you
know being outdoors one of the safest
place probably the safest place to be
with the copa 19 pandemic and at the
time i had filed my materials for appeal
there were still restrictions outdoor
by the time the attorney general gave me
the responding materials the
restrictions were lifted
several months later the restrictions
were back in and a couple of weeks
before the hearing the restrictions had
been repealed the court of appeal
dismissed it as moon
uh and so you're left in this very
unfortunate and precarious and quite
unpredictable situation of you know
timing uh and and it's
i don't agree that the issue of timing
especially in the context of a very
fluid pandemic where the government has
demonstrated its willingness to turn on
and off various and quite frankly
recycle through various different public
health measures timing shouldn't play a
role in this this is not moot in the
sense of um you know the govern a court
in another area has already made a
decision has already said this is
unconstitutional this is mutinous in the
context of very fluid public health
measures and so regardless of whether or
not those public health measures are
activated and that's what i'm going to
say because we all know they can be
activated and reactivated at the women's
cabinet right regardless of whether
they're presently activated the manner
in which these decisions are being made
and the tools that are available
um
in the context of a public health crisis
they're critical we've established a
very dangerous president here because
god only knows what's going to happen
for example when the next serious flu
comes around because it's going to be
indistinguishable in many ways from from
the mortality rates say of of kovid by
all of evidence especially if it's a
serious flu and it's likely to be
because we haven't had one for a while
and so why wouldn't we go down the same
road immediately because i think that's
probably what we'll do
so okay sam anything else to say more
generally about the situation what do
you what what's going to happen over the
next couple of months as far as you can
tell and what are you hoping will happen
well you know obviously i'm i'm hoping
that as as a shauna
carl alluded to i'm hoping that we you
know we succeed in our mutual motion
which is going to be heard in september
not about the federal court i think we
have very quick reasons uh why the
matter deserves its day in court and to
be heard and decided on the evidentiary
record that we have spent you know the
better part of a year and significant
resources investing so that the truth
can come out um but more broadly there's
two statements i'd like to make to to
everyone who's going to be watching and
listening to this uh to this segment the
first one is our case is not political
you know even though we make a lot of
reference to the liberal government uh
it's it's actually not political and the
reason why i'm saying that is because
democracy should not be political
transparency in the decision-making of
the people that we have trusted to
govern us according to a basic set of
immutable principles that are frankly
based on you know decency and liberty
that's not a political thing well it's
not as if just just to point this out
it's not as if the conservative
governments at the provincial level
level haven't done exactly the same
thing it's not as if aaron o'toole
didn't roll over instantly when these
sorts of things came along so if it's
political it's not partisan right right
exactly right and i think that's what
you're right and that's probably a
better way to put it it should not be a
partisan issue because today you might
be on one side of the vaccine debate and
tomorrow you'll find yourself on the
different side of a holy separate debate
and you hope that as a citizen of a
democratic country the government's
going to show you a basic level of
respect and decency and dignity and the
second thing that i wanted to mention is
you know it's very important that in in
the times of crises like now and a
pandemic and an unprecedented pandemic
in recent history we need to remind
ourselves that this should never serve
as a carp launch for the government to
do whatever it was
yeah circumstances of uncertainty
the absence of evidence is not evidence
you know that anything should and can be
done and we must remain vigilant now
more than ever
and we need to we need to refer back to
the principles that we know are true and
as the as the evidentiary record will
show the government had principles
principles that were developed in the
context of influenza um influenza
pandemic and and we need to avail
ourselves of those principles you know
we don't throw them outside the window
which you know seems by a large measure
was done here i really want to thank
sean and carl two people who made
extraordinary sacrifices as you've
mentioned earlier i can't imagine the
tool this has had on their personal and
private life i know i speak with them uh
more often than i speak with my fiance
so i can't imagine what that has
resulted on the home front and you know
it's canadians like sean and like carl
who are taking their civic duties
seriously and it's because of the work
that they have really undertaken in this
case that millions of canadians and
hopefully people around the world are
going to see what's going on here and
we'll learn and be better because of it
well let's hope that's the plan bruce
we'll turn to you and then and then
we'll let rupa wrap up i think so what
have you got to say from the overview
perspective well first let me say my
hat's off to these gents for having the
stuffing to do this it takes a lot of
courage and determination so good on you
let's not um fail to acknowledge how
dangerous
this story and this development is to a
lot of people to a lot of institutions
this is a threat
it's a threat
both to the
coveted narrative
but it's also a threat in a bigger sense
because
we have a seem to have in this country a
prevailing belief
that governments
are
benevolent and act in our interests all
the time now sometimes they may make
mistakes and you might prefer one color
to the other color but essentially
there's a there's a there's a belief in
the good faith of governments to do
their best and to do the right thing
and and stories like this
threaten that belief right they they
they
put into place the possibility that that
is not true that instead we're being
played
by our own governments and
and that's partly why i think the
political class is so resistant
to this and similar stories because it
does
represent a kind of of threat to the
foundation of what we think we're about
as a country and as a culture
you know in in some ways
uh our biggest
liability
as as a population
is our disbelief our disbelief our
inclination to not believe
facts
when they threaten
the the furniture in our heads and you
would know more about this than me
jordan yeah well it's no wonder you know
because the sorts of things the
principles that you're describing so
imagine that here's a rule is the
the more fundamental a principle is
the more other principles depend on it
and then each of those principles
encapsulates a lot of chaos
and so when you're asked to and chaos
produces anxiety and desperation and
disunity and conflict it's real and it's
deadly psychologically and socially and
so when you're asked to revisit your
faith in a fundamental presupposition
which is well
accounting for human error the
government is acting in good faith
because that's what's being questioned
here
well no they're not okay well how many
snakes have you just left left left out
of the closet and the question is well
hopefully not all of them but we don't
really know and it's a reasonable
response to say i'm not going to believe
that without exceptional evidence but
the problem is is that
rupa and the gentleman that we've been
talking to
have showed
that there's every reason to believe
that this happens to be the case and so
it's no wonder it's taking canadians a
long time to
to swallow this it's a large and bitter
pill
so but not as large and bitter as the
pill we will all be required to swallow
if we don't wake up to what's happening
i agree with
okay and so bruce if the government has
in fact
exceeded their
uh political mandate their moral
political mandate and if they have
violated the charter in at least this
instance and i would say many many
others
then
what should that imply and what recourse
is there apart from
at the voting
uh booth
well the voting booth becomes very
important in this i mean
what you're essentially
what you essentially need is
a cultural change on the part of a
critical mass of people who say you know
what
no
this is not okay
and and we will not go along with this
now and the next time this happens which
is going to be very soon
uh you
unless you have that kind of critical
mass you're not going to see
changes in the behavior of the press of
the government
maybe the courts
uh
all our institutions all our
institutions in spite of themselves are
influenced by popular opinion they deny
it
but that doesn't make it not true
well you know as i've been as i've been
going around on my tour one of the
things i've sort of added is a
suggestion to people for what it's worth
but i've talked to
i don't know how many people
200 000 people i guess in the last four
months one of the things i've tried to
suggest to people is that they pick up
their civic duty a bit it's like look
and again those of you who are listening
and watching and thinking there's
nothing i can do it's like yes you can
you can join a political party you can
join the conservatives you could join
the liberals you could join the ndp
although i don't know why you would
because they just look like liberals to
me and i don't think you should join the
liberals but in any case you can do all
of that and then and that's not nothing
and you could get involved and you could
start to move the political landscape
in accordance with your own
needs and wants and become more
articulate doing so and learn to play a
role in the political process
and if you don't
then what's happening is going to
continue to happen because we do have a
system where sovereignty inheres in the
people and that means if the people
abdicate their civic responsibility then
the
the delusional and terrified
instrumental tyrants will have their way
people should not underestimate the
effect that they can have on their own
and in small groups i mean that's what
these three guys are doing on their own
for example but but if we had more
people doing more things in the way
you're describing
the change would be significant
yeah so if you're listening and watching
and you're not a member of a canadian
political party then you've got to ask
yourself you know what right do you have
to your outrage
so because you're not pulling your
weight man and and if you're not in any
civic institution at all you're not in a
church you're not in a business
organization you're on a sports team
you're not engaged actively in the civic
discussion then it's no wonder that
you're being blown by the wind every way
because
well that's this position you've left
yourself in and when you join when you
join these places don't just go along
you're there to change the course yeah
well and to learn you know if you're
young you think well what can i do it's
like well first of all you can volunteer
you can learn to serve the people who
have a little bit more authority than
you and you will learn doing that and if
you're good at it you'll rise up the
ranks unbelievably quickly because one
thing you can say because people have
abdicated their political responsibility
is that there's kind of a responsibility
void there and so if you're halfway is
competent and willing to put in some
time and effort the rewards can be
incommensurate in relationship to the
effort so okay rupa
maybe you can just
walk us through what you hope to have
happen next what you think should happen
yeah well i can't really top bruce but
i'll try my best uh jordan uh you know
just to sum up uh this this the story uh
you know for for our uh for your viewers
and listeners
basically this government appeared to
have made this policy by firing from the
hip without any recourse to a scientific
to a scientific rationale uh we know
this rationale was probably concocted on
the flight after the policy decision had
been made
um and it's also interesting that the
trudeau government announced this
vaccine mandate in the lead up to an
election
as it proved to be an important wedge
issue for him to get re-elected even
though they lost the popular vote in the
end and they only got a minority
government
basically what is unfortunate about all
of this is that sound public policy was
held as held hostage to politics um with
the government with the trudeau
government pushing these divisive uh
vaccine mandates in the few areas where
they had jurisdiction which is namely
the travel sector and the federal
workforce
um also i would like to point out that
the uh you know that it's odd it's
incredibly odd that uh that trudeau
would uh promise vaccine mandates as
part of an election campaign rather than
just simply implement
them
as a country serving prime minister if
this was indeed about public health
policy why would you have to make it a
campaign issue it really really is
bizarre and you know you would ask me
earlier uh at the beginning of the show
about civil servants um citing cabinet
confidentiality and i've been thinking
about this
uh exactly why uh you know why why
should something like a public health
mandate uh you know why why is it so
confidential why is the rationale for a
public health mandate why should it be
so confidential um and this is a this is
a very puzzling question and for me it
raises the disturbing it raises a
disturbing possibility that there really
was no rationale at all and in the end
the emperor has no clothes um and i
think going forward i really i you know
i very much agree with what bruce was
saying and what you said uh change is
gonna have to come in some form or the
other i uh the trucker's protest i think
uh moved uh moved the needle or the dial
a little bit um and i know a lot of
people came around um and and started
asking these questions
certainly polls right now show that uh
uh where previously 70 of those polled
supported vaccine mandates right now
that number stands at 20 so people are
starting to rethink um mandates they're
starting to ask these questions uh they
you know they they're starting to ask
questions of their elected officials uh
they're asking hey you know you told us
with vaccination we'd go back to uh our
uh back to our lives but yet you know
we're still facing uh restrictions we're
still looking at mass mandates uh what
is going on uh i i would also like to
point out to the fact that the booster
uptake in this country has been pretty
low compared to most other places uh and
that shows that people are you know
starting to have a rethink you know if
if if the boosters are not uh preventing
uh transmission uh what is the point in
me getting it and uh
and you know so
perhaps
why should a 20 year old get a booster
what's the point in that uh maybe it
makes sense for a child yeah or a child
for that matter so i think people are
starting to ask questions we may not
necessarily see the kind of outrage that
we would like to see uh but i do think
that uh change is certainly happening
well maybe maybe we'll get lucky and
we'll see change instead of outrage you
know and and maybe that's a more
canadian way of doing things that we're
slow to wake up but maybe when we wake
up we will move in the right direction
absolutely that is my hope as well
yep
all right well i've been talking today
to
rupa subramania
bruce pardee sam presvolos carl harrison
and
sean rickard they're all in their own
way attempting to bring some clarity to
what's a very murky and dismal situation
let's say with hopefully some light
shining in the distance and so
appreciate you very much um all of you
for being willing to participate in this
conversation and for all the diligent
work that you've done and the sacrifices
that you've made i'm going to continue
my talk with rupa uh over at the daily
wire plus uh where we go behind the
scenes a bit and look at
the details of her career and her life
and what's put her in a position that
she's able to do the sorts of things
that we talked about today
hello everyone i would encourage you to
continue listening to my conversation
with my guest on dailywireplus.com